`Layout::Flex` - documentation (#2764)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/layouts/flex/partials/code/how-to-use.md

Author: With the reorganization of the content done in https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/pull/2764#discussion_r2007852375 I think now it's much better

## How to use this component

!!! Insight

It's much easier to use this component if one is familiar with the CSS3 Flexible Box specifications.
<br/>
A good and quick introduction to flexbox can be found in [**this MDN guide**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox).

!!!

TODO add intro here about why this component in HDS

### Basic usage [TODO]

Explain the most basic usage here

- just flex
- flex + item(s)

explain that the `Flex.Item` is not necessary per se

add here text about not abusing it!

### Tag

To specify which HTML tag to use to render the flex container and/or item(s), use the `@tag` argument:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex @tag="ul" as |LF|>
  <li>{{! some content here }}</li>
  <LF.Item @tag="li">
    {{! some other content here }}

>   </HLF.Item>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  </LF.Item>
```

## How to use this component

!!! Insight

It's much easier to use this component if one is familiar with the CSS3 Flexible Box specifications.
<br/>
A good and quick introduction to flexbox can be found in [**this MDN guide**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox).

!!!

The `Layout::Flex` and optional `Layout::Flex::Item` components provide a way to quickly build out flexbox-based layouts of components or elements without needing to write a lot of custom CSS code or understand all the intricacies of CSS flexbox styles.

### Basic usage

> The simplest way to implementat a flexbox layout is by using the `Layout::Flex` component to wrap some content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest way to implement a flexbox layout is by using the `Layout::Flex` component to wrap some content:
```

There are cases in which is necessary to wrap one or more child elements in a specific `Layout::Flex::Item` (eg. to apply the `@basis/@grow/@shrink` arguments, see below for details):

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex as |LF|>
  <div>{{! some content here }}</div>
  <LF.Item @grow={{false}}>
    {{! some other content here }}
  </LF.Item>
  <div>{{! more content here }}</div>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

!!! Info

Note: there is no strict need to use the `Layout::Flex::Item` subcomponent as a direct child of `Layout::Flex`; use it only when necessary to tweak flex styles of individual child item via the `@basis/@grow/@shrink` (to avoid rendering an extra Ember component).

!!!

### Tag

To specify which HTML tag to use to render the flex container and/or item(s), use the `@tag` argument:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex @tag="ul" as |LF|>
  <li>{{! some content here }}</li>
  <LF.Item @tag="li">
    {{! some other content here }}
  </LF.Item>
  <li>{{! more content here }}</li>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> !!! Insight

Reviewer: Added, thanks!

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex @wrap={{true}} @gap={{array "16" "48"}}>
  {{!
    multiple flex items appearing on multiple rows
    with a vertical gap of 16px and an horizontal one of 48px
  }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

The first value in the array refers to the vertical gap between "rows" of items (`row-gap` in CSS), the second one to the horizontal spacing between "columns" of items (`column-gap` in CSS).

The `@gap` argument accepts only **pre-defined values**, it can't be used to provide custom spacing values. Refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section for details on which values are accepted.

If you need to provide custom spacing values, see below how you can use a special escape hatch for this.

!!! Warning

**Important**

The **pre-defined value(s)** passed to the `@gap` argument **must be string(s)**, not numbers!

!!!

📚 Refer to the ["Recipes"](#flexbox-layout-recipes) and [Patterns](#common-layout-patterns) sections below for practical examples of how the Flexbox `gap` property can be used to implement specific layouts.

> #### Non-standard gap values

Author: In some cases this will be a necessity, expecially if they need to migrate some existing layouts, so we have to give them a (well documented) way to do it.

> #### Non-standard gap values

Reviewer 2: Makes sense. @KristinLBradley thanks for adding a section like this in the grid docs.

  @wrap={{true}}
>
  {{!
    multiple flex items appearing on multiple rows
    with a vertical gap of 10px and an horizontal one of 0.625rem
  }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### isInline

To change the default display from `flex` to `inline-flex`, set `@isInline` to `true`:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex @isInline={{true}}>
  {{! the flex items here }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Basis/Grow/Shrink

To control the relative sizing of the flex items, use the `@basis`, `@grow`, and `@shrink` arguments:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex as |LF|>
  ...
  <LF.Item @basis="200px" @grow={{1}} @shrink={{0}}>
    {{! the flex item content here }}
  </HLF.Item>
  ...
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

How these three properties impact on the (relative) size of a flex item is not trivial, we suggest to look at the introduction to flexbox guide linked at the top of this page.

📚 Refer to the ["Recipes"](#flexbox-layout-recipes) and [Patterns](#common-layout-patterns) sections below for practical examples of how the Flexbox `flex-basis`/`flex-grow`/`flex-shrink` properties can be used to implement specific layouts.

---

> ## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Author: I hear your point. Let's see what others think and then we can make a decision.

> ## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Reviewer: To me, "patterns" and "recipes" seem pretty much synonymous used in this context.

Maybe you could experiment with taking some of the simpler examples from the "recipes" and instead using them as in-context examples though and see how that works?

For the Grid component though, it's a simpler component and I wanted to keep the documentation shorter and more focused. So I don't think the Flex documentation necessarily needs to follow the exact same format. Also there are a lot more common use cases the Flex component applies to vs. the Grid.

> ## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Author: Tomorrow I'll try to "merge" the content/sections in a different way.

> ## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Author: @KristinLBradley @dchyun @shleewhite I have re-worked the "How to use" section, merging/moving content per your suggestions. See if now works for you: https://hds-website-git-flex-component-documentation-hashicorp.vercel.app/layouts/flex

> ## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Reviewer 2: This is looking great! Thanks for reorganizing. I like how the recipe examples were integrated into each section, and how the new simple examples are placed before them. I'll take some time to comb through it in more detail, but works great for me.

> ## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Reviewer 3: Yup! 100% agree with Dylan, the new structure is great.

> ## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Reviewer: Agree. This looks good. Resolving this comment thread.

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex class="doc-flex-demo-custom-flex-column-gap">
  {{!
    // example of CSS code associated with the demo class:
    .doc-flex-demo-custom-flex-column-gap {
      --hds-layout-flex-column-gap: 13px;
    }
  }}
  {{!
    multiple flex items here, with a non-standard gap between them
  }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

If the flex items are wrapping to multiple lines, you have to overwrite both the "row" and "column" gap values:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex
  {{style --hds-layout-flex-row-gap="10px" --hds-layout-flex-column-gap="0.625rem"}}
  @wrap={{true}}
>
  {{!
    multiple flex items appearing on multiple rows
    with a vertical gap of 10px and an horizontal one of 0.625rem
  }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Alignment

Using `flexbox` is one of the simplest ways to control how lists of items are aligned and spaced, and it's done via a set of `justify-*` and `align-*` properties.

> In the `Layout::Flex` component this is achieved use the `@justify` and `align` arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Layout::Flex` component this is achieved using the `@justify` and `align` arguments.
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="center" @gap="8">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="100px" @height="100px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="200px" @height="40px" @background="#fff8d2">Other content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="300" @height="20px" @background="#e4c5f3">More content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case, the `@align="center"` applied to the flex container forces the flex items to vertically align their centers along the "cross axis"

#### Both horizontal and vertical centering

Another classic CSS problem: how to center content _both_ horizontally and vertically inside a larger container? Again, the solution is to use flexbox alignment.

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @justify="center" @align="center" class="doc-flex-fixed-height-container doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="240px" @height="180px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case, the `@justify="center"` and `@align="stretch"` arguments applied to the flex container force the flex item to be centered both horizontally and vertically

> _Note: we have applied an outline and a fixed height to the flex container to demonstrate the behavior_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Note: We have applied an outline and a fixed height to the flex container to demonstrate the behavior._
```

### Wrapping

> One useful function of the flexbox layout model is that it allows items to wrap along multiple rows when there is not enough space in the container to fit them all in a single line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One useful function of the flexbox layout model is that it allows items to wrap along multiple rows when there is not enough space in the container to fit them all in a single line.
```

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex @wrap={{true}}>
  {{! multiple flex items here, some of which may appear on multiple rows }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @wrap={{true}} @gap={{array "8" "24"}}  class="doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="220px" @height="40px" @background="#e5ffd2">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="250px" @height="40px" @background="#e4c5f3">Other content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="200px" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">More content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="300px" @height="40px" @background="#fff8d2">Extra content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="240px" @height="40px" @background="#f3d9c5">Even more content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```
In this case the `@wrap=\{{true}}` applied to the flex container allows the flex items to wrap on multiple lines. The `@gap=\{{array "8" "24"}}` applied to the flex container defines the gap between the items along the two "directions" (the first value is the space between "rows", the second between "columns").

### Sizing

> In flexbox it's possible to control the relative sizing of flex items within a flex container using the `basis`, `grow`, and `shrink` properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In flexbox, it's possible to control the relative sizing of flex items within a flex container using the `basis`, `grow`, and `shrink` properties.
```

In the `Flex::Layout`, these properties translate to the `@basis`, `@grow`, and `@shrink` arguments.

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex as |LF|>
  ...
  <LF.Item @basis="200px" @grow={{1}} @shrink={{0}}>
    {{! the flex item content here }}
  </HLF.Item>
  ...
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> How these three properties impact the (relative) size of a flex item is not trivial, we suggest consulting [the MDN guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How these three properties impact the (relative) size of a flex item is not trivial. We suggest consulting [the MDN guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox).
```

  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <LF.Item>
    <Doc::placeholder @height="40px" @background="#e5ffd2">This content occupies the minimum space possible</Doc::placeholder>
  </LF.Item>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Extra content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

If we want an item to to grow and occupy the available space, we have to use its `grow` property.

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <LF.Item @grow={{true}}>
    <Doc::placeholder @height="40px" @background="#e5ffd2">This content occupies as much space as possible</Doc::placeholder>
  </LF.Item>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Extra content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case we have applied `@grow=\{{true}}` to the wrapping `Flex::Item`, forcing it to use all the available space inside the flexbox container.

#### Prevent collapsing of content

> In the example below, you can see (look at the button element) how, if one of the flex items has an intrinsic size larger than the flex container, it may squeeze the rest of the flex items:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, you can see how, if one of the flex items has an intrinsic size larger than the flex container, it may squeeze the rest of the flex items (specifically the button element in this case).
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="100%" @height="auto" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that wants to occupy all the available space</Doc::placeholder>
  <button type="button">A simple button</button>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

To avoid this, one has to tell the item not to shrink beyond its own size:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="100%" @height="auto" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that wants to occupy all the available space</Doc::placeholder>
  <LF.Item @shrink={{false}}>
    <button type="button">A simple button</button>
  </LF.Item>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> In this case we have used a wrapping `Flex::Item` and applied `@shrink=\{{false}}` to it, to prevent it from shrinking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, we have used a wrapping `Flex::Item` and applied `@shrink=\{{false}}` to it, to prevent it from shrinking.
```

#### Prevent stretching of content

If one of the flex items has an intrinsic height larger than the other flex items, those items may be stretched vertically so they all have the same height:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="80px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that is taller than the sibling item</Doc::placeholder>
  <button type="button" class="doc-flex-margin-left-auto">A simple button</button>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

This behavior is due to the default behavior of the flexbox layout model, and depends on the CSS `display` of those items.

To avoid this, one can choose a non-stretching alignment for the items.

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="start" @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="80px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that is taller than the sibling item</Doc::placeholder>
  <button type="button" class="doc-flex-margin-left-auto">A simple button</button>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> In this case the `@align="start"` applied to the flex container forces the flex items to vertically align at the start (top) along what is called the "cross axis".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the `@align="start"` applied to the flex container forces the flex items to vertically align at the start (top) along what is called the "cross axis".
```

> An alternative solution is to wrap the element that shouldn't stretch with a flex `Item`, like in this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative solution is to wrap the element that shouldn't stretch with a flex `Item` like in this example:
```

  </LF.Item>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### More options

#### Inline

To change the default display from `flex` to `inline-flex`, set `@isInline` to `true`.

```handlebars
<p>It is going to be a
<Hds::Layout::Flex  @isInline={{true}} @tag="span" @gap="4">
  <Doc::Placeholder @width="16px" @height="16px" @text="😎" @background="#e4c5f3" />
  <Doc::Placeholder @height="16px" @text="Sunny day" @background="#fff8d2" />
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
this Sunday.</p>
```

#### Nesting

It's possible to nest flexbox containers to achieve more complex layouts.

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="column" class="doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @height="50px" @background="#e5ffd2">Top content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="row" as |LF|>
    <Doc::placeholder @width="150px" @height="auto" @background="#e4c5f3">Side content</Doc::placeholder>
    <LF.Item @grow={{true}}>
      <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="250px" @background="#d2f4ff">Main content</Doc::placeholder>
    </LF.Item>
  </Hds::Layout::Flex>
  <Doc::placeholder @height="50px" @background="#fff8d2">Bottom content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> In this case the outer container is a column-based flexbox layout, with three child items while the second item is a row-based flexbox layout, used to create two side-by-side content blocks. Of these two, the first has a fixed width, while the second fills the remaining area thanks to the `@grow=\{{true}}` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the outer container is a column-based flexbox layout, with three child items while the second item is a row-based flexbox layout, used to create two side-by-side content blocks. Of these two, the first has a fixed width, while the second fills the remaining area thanks to the `@grow=\{{true}}` attribute.
```

!!! Insight

Depending on the complexity and type of design you need to implement, you may want to consider using a CSS `grid` layout, instead of a `flex` layout.

!!!

---

## Common layout patterns

> Below are some examples of common layouts that can be achieved using the `Layout::Flex` component, in composition with other HDS components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are some examples of common layouts that can be achieved using the `Layout::Flex` component, in combination with other HDS components.
```

```

!!! Warning

A responsive implementation of this UI pattern is a bit more complex and requires usage of `min-max/max-width` values for the cards and allowing wrapping of the flex item elements. It may also require changing the direction of the flex container at a certain breakpoint.

!!!

Similarly, it's easy to implement a vertical stack of cards:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="column" @gap="16" as |LF|>
  <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is some generic content inside a card</Hds::Text::Body>
  </Hds::Card::Container>
  <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is some other generic content inside a card</Hds::Text::Body>
  </Hds::Card::Container>
  <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is also some generic content inside a card, but the text is longer and makes the card grow vertically</Hds::Text::Body>
  </Hds::Card::Container>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Empty state

> Using the horizontal/vertical alignment offered by flexbox, it is also possible to implement a standard empty state in a page. As consumer you will just have to take care of the height of the container in relation to the available vertical space in the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the horizontal/vertical alignment offered by flexbox, it is also possible to implement a standard empty state in a page. As consumer, you will just have to take care of the height of the container in relation to the available vertical space in the page.
```

## How to use this component

!!! Insight

It's much easier to use this component if one is familiar with the CSS3 Flexible Box specifications.
<br/>
A good and quick introduction to flexbox can be found in [this MDN guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox).

!!!

The `Layout::Flex` and optional `Layout::Flex::Item` components provide a way to quickly build out flexbox-based layouts of components or elements without needing to write a lot of custom CSS code or understand all the intricacies of CSS flexbox styles.

### Basic usage

The simplest way to implement a flexbox layout is by using the `Layout::Flex` component to wrap some content:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex>
  <div>{{! some content here }}</div>
  <div>{{! some other content here }}</div>
  <div>{{! more content here }}</div>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> In this way, every direct child element of the **flexbox container** will be treated, by the browser's layout engine, as a **flex item** (for details about what this means, refer to the guide linked at the top of this page).

Author: I prefer to have a single place where we update the link if necessary. Does it make sense?

> In this way, every direct child element of the **flexbox container** will be treated, by the browser's layout engine, as a **flex item** (for details about what this means, refer to the guide linked at the top of this page).

Reviewer 3: ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ thats totally fair. I just think its easier to give the users the link in context if you're going to mention it, plus its also linked several times in the API section.

This is def a personal preference thing - feel free to not apply.

> In this way, every direct child element of the **flexbox container** will be treated, by the browser's layout engine, as a **flex item** (for details about what this means, refer to the guide linked at the top of this page).

Author: Changed as you suggested.

> There are cases in which is necessary to wrap one or more child elements in a specific `Layout::Flex::Item` (eg. to apply the `@basis/@grow/@shrink` arguments, see below for details):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are cases in which it is necessary to wrap one or more child elements in a specific `Layout::Flex::Item` (eg. to apply the `@basis/@grow/@shrink` arguments, see below for details):
```

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex as |LF|>
  <div>{{! some content here }}</div>
  <LF.Item @grow={{false}}>
    {{! some other content here }}
  </LF.Item>
  <div>{{! more content here }}</div>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

!!! Info

> Note: there is no strict need to use the `Layout::Flex::Item` subcomponent as a direct child of `Layout::Flex`; use it only when necessary to tweak flex styles of individual child item via the `@basis/@grow/@shrink` (to avoid rendering an extra Ember component).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: there is no strict need to use the `Layout::Flex::Item` subcomponent as a direct child of `Layout::Flex`; use it only when necessary to tweak flex styles of an individual child item via the `@basis/@grow/@shrink` (to avoid rendering an extra Ember component).
```

> Note: there is no strict need to use the `Layout::Flex::Item` subcomponent as a direct child of `Layout::Flex`; use it only when necessary to tweak flex styles of an individual child item via the `@basis/@grow/@shrink` (to avoid rendering an extra Ember component).

Author: Nice!

!!!

### Tag

To specify which HTML tag to use to render the flex container and/or item(s), use the `@tag` argument:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex @tag="ul" as |LF|>
  <li>{{! some content here }}</li>
  <LF.Item @tag="li">
    {{! some other content here }}
  </LF.Item>
  <li>{{! more content here }}</li>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

!!! Insight

> While by default the component renders a `<div>`, we invite consumers to consider which semantic HTML tag is the correct one for the context in which the text is used to meet WCAG Success Criterion [1.3.1 Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/info-and-relationships.html) as the visual experience should match what is presented to the user with assistive technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While, by default, the component renders a `<div>`, we invite consumers to consider which semantic HTML tag is the correct one for the context in which the text is used to meet WCAG Success Criterion [1.3.1 Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/info-and-relationships.html) as the visual experience should match what is presented to the user with assistive technology.
```

!!!

### Direction

> To specify which in which [direction](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/flex-direction) the flex items are laid out, use the `@direction` argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify in which [direction](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/flex-direction) the flex items are laid out, use the `@direction` argument:
```

</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

The first value in the array refers to the vertical gap between "rows" of items (`row-gap` in CSS), the second one to the horizontal spacing between "columns" of items (`column-gap` in CSS).

The `@gap` argument accepts only **pre-defined values**, it can't be used to provide custom spacing values. Refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section for details on which values are accepted.

If you need to provide custom spacing values, see below how you can use a special escape hatch for this.

!!! Warning

**Important**

The **pre-defined value(s)** passed to the `@gap` argument **must be string(s)**, not numbers!

!!!

📚 Refer to the ["Recipes"](#flexbox-layout-recipes) and [Patterns](#common-layout-patterns) sections below for practical examples of how the Flexbox `gap` property can be used to implement specific layouts.

#### Non-standard gap values

If you absolutely have to use non-standard spacing value(s) for the flex `gap`, you can use the internal `--hds-layout-flex-row-gap` and `--hds-layout-flex-column-gap` CSS variables and pass custom values to them (e.g., via a local CSS variable or an inline style):

```handlebars{data-execute=false}

> <Hds::Layout::Flex class="doc-flex-demo-custom-flex-column-gap">

Author: I'm going to add a comment with the CSS declaration, I think we have done it elsewhere

  {{!
    multiple flex items here, with a non-standard gap between them
    by assigning a custom value for `--hds-layout-flex-column-gap`
    declared in the `.doc-flex-demo-custom-flex-column-gap` local class
  }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case we're overwriting only the "column" gap value via the custom CSS class.

> If the flex items are wrapping on multiple lines, you have to overwrite both the "row" and "column" gap values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the flex items are wrapping to multiple lines, you have to overwrite both the "row" and "column" gap values:
```

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex
  {{style --hds-layout-flex-row-gap="10px" --hds-layout-flex-column-gap="0.625rem"}}
  @wrap={{true}}
>
  {{!
    multiple flex items appearing on multiple rows
    with a vertical gap of 10px and an horizontal one of 0.625rem
  }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### isInline

> To change the default display from `flex` to `inline-flex`, set `@isInline` to `true`:

Author: It's pretty standard in our documentation to use a colon at the end of the paragraph that introduces/explains a code snippet:
https://helios.hashicorp.design/components/button?tab=code#add-an-icon

> To change the default display from `flex` to `inline-flex`, set `@isInline` to `true`:

Reviewer 3: Oops! sorry, I thought our standard was to do a period.

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex @isInline={{true}}>
  {{! the flex items here }}
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Basis/Grow/Shrink

To control the relative sizing of the flex items, use the `@basis`, `@grow`, and `@shrink` arguments:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::Layout::Flex as |LF|>
  ...
  <LF.Item @basis="200px" @grow={{1}} @shrink={{0}}>
    {{! the flex item content here }}
  </HLF.Item>
  ...
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> How these three properties impact on the (relative) size of a flex item is not trivial, we suggest to look at the introduction to flexbox guide linked at the top of this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How these three properties impact the (relative) size of a flex item is not trivial, we suggest consulting the MDN flexbox guide linked at the top of this page.
```

📚 Refer to the ["Recipes"](#flexbox-layout-recipes) and [Patterns](#common-layout-patterns) sections below for practical examples of how the Flexbox `flex-basis`/`flex-grow`/`flex-shrink` properties can be used to implement specific layouts.

---

## Flexbox layout "recipes"

Below some examples of common generic layouts that can be achieved using CSS `flexbox`, and therefore the `Layout::Flex` component.

### Alignment

> Using `flexbox`/`Layout::Flex` is one of the simplest way to control the alignment of lists of items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `flexbox`/`Layout::Flex` is one of the simplest ways to control the alignment of lists of items.
```

#### Evenly spaced items

This is an example of how to implement a layout where a set of items are evenly spaced:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @justify="space-between" @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Other content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">More content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="200px" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that is wider</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

> - the `@justify="space-between"` applied to the flex container forces the flex layout model to distribute the space evenly between the items; the space between the items remains the same, even if their size is different

Author: For consistency, I prefer to keep a list even if it's a single item

#### Right aligned items

This is an example of how to obtain a layout where one of the items is flushed to the right side of the container, while all the others are flushed to the left:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Other content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder class="doc-flex-margin-left-auto" @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#fff8d2">Content flushed on the right</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

- by applying a `margin-left: auto` to the last flex item, the flexbox layout engine pushes it completely to the right (because implicitly it has `margin-right: 0`)

> The same technique can also be applied when there are multiple elements that need to be aligned on the right:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same technique can also be applied when there are multiple elements that need to be aligned to the right:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Other content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder class="doc-flex-margin-left-auto" @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#fff8d2">More content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#e4c5f3">Extra content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

> - the `margin-left: auto` is applied only to the first item that is flushed to the right; all the other items are automatically pushed to the right by the first flushed item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `margin-left: auto` is applied only to the first item that is flushed to the right; all the other items are automatically pushed to the right by the first flushed right item
```

#### Vertical centering

> For a long time, this has been one classic problem in CSS: how to vertically center two or more items? The more reliable solution is to use flexbox's alignment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A classic CSS problem: how to vertically center two or more items? A reliable solution is to use flexbox alignment:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="center" @gap="8">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="100px" @height="100px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="200px" @height="40px" @background="#fff8d2">Other content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="300" @height="20px" @background="#e4c5f3">More content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

> - the `@align="center"` applied to the flex container forces the flex items to vertically align their centers along what is called the "cross axis"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `@align="center"` applied to the flex container forces the flex items to vertically align their centers along the "cross axis"
```

#### Both horizontal and vertical centering

> This has also been another classic CSS problem: how to center _both_ horizontally and vertically some content, inside a larger container? Again, the solution relies in using flexbox's alignment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another classic CSS problem: how to center content _both_ horizontally and vertically inside a larger container? Again, the solution is to use flexbox alignment:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @justify="center" @align="center" class="doc-flex-fixed-height-container doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @width="240px" @height="180px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

> - the `@justify="center"` and `@align="stretch"` applied to the flex container force the flex item to be centered both horizontally and vertically (_note: we have applied an outline and a fixed height to the flex container to demonstrate the behavior_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `@justify="center"` and `@align="stretch"` arguments applied to the flex container force the flex item to be centered both horizontally and vertically (_note: we have applied an outline and a fixed height to the flex container to demonstrate the behavior_)
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <LF.Item>
    <Doc::placeholder @height="40px" @background="#e5ffd2">This content occupies the minimum space possible</Doc::placeholder>
  </LF.Item>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Extra content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

If we want an item to to grow and occupy the available space, we have to use its `grow` property:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content</Doc::placeholder>
  <LF.Item @grow={{true}}>
    <Doc::placeholder @height="40px" @background="#e5ffd2">This content occupies as much space as possible</Doc::placeholder>
  </LF.Item>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="40px" @background="#d2f4ff">Extra content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

> - we have applied `@grow=\{{true}}` to the wrapping `Flex::Item`, forcing it to use all the available extra space inside the flexbox container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- we have applied `@grow=\{{true}}` to the wrapping `Flex::Item`, forcing it to use all the available space inside the flexbox container
```

Author: 👏

Reviewer: I just deleted one word... :)

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="100%" @height="auto" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that wants to occupy all the available space</Doc::placeholder>
  <LF.Item @shrink={{false}}>
    <button type="button">A simple button</button>
  </LF.Item>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

- we have used a wrapping `Flex::Item` and applied `@shrink=\{{false}}` to it, to prevent it from shrinking

#### Prevent stretching of content

If one of the flex items has an intrinsic height larger than the other flex items, those items may be stretched vertically so they all have the same height:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="80px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that is taller than the sibling item</Doc::placeholder>
  <button type="button" class="doc-flex-margin-left-auto">A simple button</button>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

This behavior is due to the default behavior of the flexbox layout model, and depends on the CSS `display` of those items.

> To avoid this, one has to choose a non-stretching alignment for the items:

Author: Yeah, makes sense (I added the second one later)

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="start" @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container" as |LF|>
  <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="80px" @background="#d2f4ff">Some content that is taller than the sibling item</Doc::placeholder>
  <button type="button" class="doc-flex-margin-left-auto">A simple button</button>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

- the `@align="start"` applied to the flex container forces the flex items to vertically align at the start (top) along what is called the "cross axis"

An alternative solution is to wrap the element that shouldn't stretch with a flex `Item`:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="column" @gap="16" as |LF|>
  <Hds::Badge @text="Stretched badge" @color="critical" />
  <LF.Item>
    <Hds::Badge @text="Non-stretched badge" @color="success" />
  </LF.Item>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Wrapping

> One of the useful functionalities of the flexbox layout model is that it allows the items to wrap along multiple rows when there is not enough space in the container to fit them all in a single line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One useful function of the flexbox layout model is that it allows items to wrap along multiple rows when there is not enough space in the container to fit them all in a single line:
```

</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```
In this case:

- the `@wrap=\{{true}}` applied to the flex container allows the flex items to wrap on multiple lines
- the `@gap=\{{array "8" "24"}}` applied to the flex container defines the gap between the items along the two "directions" (the first value is the space between "rows", the second between "columns")

### Nesting

It's possible to nest flexbox containers to achieve more complex layouts:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="column" class="doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Doc::placeholder @height="50px" @background="#e5ffd2">Top content</Doc::placeholder>
  <Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="row" as |LF|>
    <Doc::placeholder @width="150px" @height="auto" @background="#e4c5f3">Side content</Doc::placeholder>
    <LF.Item @grow={{true}}>
      <Doc::placeholder @width="auto" @height="250px" @background="#d2f4ff">Main content</Doc::placeholder>
    </LF.Item>
  </Hds::Layout::Flex>
  <Doc::placeholder @height="50px" @background="#fff8d2">Bottom content</Doc::placeholder>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

In this case:

- the outer container is a column-based flexbox layout, with three child items

> - the second item is a row-based flexbox layout, used to create two side-by side content blocks; of these two the first has a fixed width, while the second fills the remaining area thanks to the `@grow=\{{true}}` attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the second item is a row-based flexbox layout, used to create two side-by-side content blocks; of these two the first has a fixed width, while the second fills the remaining area thanks to the `@grow=\{{true}}` attribute
```

!!! Insight

> Depending on the complexity and type of design you need to implement, you may want to consider using a CSS `grid` layout, instead of a `flex` layout.

Author: Yes, since the two branches are independent (not one based off the other) we have a plan for a follow-up ticket once they're both merged, to bi-directionally link the two documentation pages (also as related components)

> Depending on the complexity of the design you need to implement, you may want to consider using a CSS `grid` layout, instead of a `flex` layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the complexity and type of design you need to implement, you may want to consider using a CSS `grid` layout, instead of a `flex` layout.
```

!!!

---

## Common layout patterns

Below are some more realistic examples of common layouts that can be achieved using the `Layout::Flex` component, in composition with other HDS components.

!!! Warning

**Important**

> The examples below are meant to show how one _could_ use the `Layout::Flex` component to implement certain common/standard UI patterns. They're **not** meant to be taken literally as they are and be used in production code. Also, some of these patterns may already implemented directly in HDS components that are ready to use.

Author: We use flex in a lot of places! We can't list them all here :)

> The examples below are meant to show how one _could_ use the `Layout::Flex` component to implement certain common/standard UI patterns. They're **not** meant to be taken literally as they are and be used in production code. Also, some of these patterns may already implemented directly in HDS components that are ready to use.

Reviewer 3: Hahah I meant more specifically which of the common UI patterns you demonstrate below are already in HDS components. Is it the card layouts? Otherwise I'd just remove that sentence.

> The examples below are meant to show how one _could_ use the `Layout::Flex` component to implement certain common/standard UI patterns. They're **not** meant to be taken literally as they are and be used in production code. Also, some of these patterns are already implemented directly in HDS components that are ready to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples below are meant to show how one _could_ use the `Layout::Flex` component to implement certain common/standard UI patterns. They're **not** meant to be taken literally as they are and be used in production code. Also, some of these patterns may already implemented directly in HDS components that are ready to use.
```

Reviewer: Up to you if you want to use "are" or "may" here. (I used "may" in this warning notice in the `Grid` documentation but the grid layout has fewer uses...)

!!!

### Media + Text/Content

> This is a classic layout, where a "media" element (it could be an image, an icon, an avatar, etc) is laid out next to a block of text (but could be more complex content). The two elements are visually centered along their horizontal axis.

Reviewer: Just a note: The [classic "Media object"](https://www.stubbornella.org/2010/06/25/the-media-object-saves-hundreds-of-lines-of-code/) referred to a media element laid out next to associated text with both aligned to the top.

I've sometimes seen Media objects with a centered horizontal axis layout referred to as "Flag objects" (really just a variation of the Media Object).

Author: I'll update the description:
```suggestion
This is a classic layout, where a "media" element (it could be an image, an icon, an avatar, etc) is laid out next to a block of text (but could be more complex content). The two elements are either visually centered along their horizontal axis, or aligned to their top.
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="center" @gap="8">
  <img class="doc-flex-media-avatar" src="/assets/images/avatar.png" alt="portrait of a cat wearing coat and tie" />
  <Hds::Text::Body @size="200" @tag="p">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</Hds::Text::Body>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>

> <br/>

Reviewer: Super nit: it bothers me to see `<br/>` tags used as spacers like this... I'd personally avoid including those in code examples that others may copy.

Author: the alternative is to have `doc-something` classes just for this, which is also not great, no? if you have strong feelings I can change it though.

Reviewer: It just really bugs me to model something in an example that I wouldn't recommend people use but it's probably just me

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/pull/2764/commits/e89a70e4460f05b13b27a5d87616195d33b1173b

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="center" @gap="8">
  <Hds::Icon @name="info" @size="24" />
  <Hds::Text::Body @size="200" @tag="p">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet</Hds::Text::Body>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="start" @gap="16">
  <Hds::IconTile @logo="boundary" />
  <Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="column" @gap="4">
    <Hds::Text::Display @size="400" @tag="h5">Lorem ipsum dolor</Hds::Text::Display>
    <Hds::Text::Body @size="200" @tag="p">Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipiscing elit</Hds::Text::Body>
    <Hds::Link::Standalone @icon="external-link" @iconPosition="trailing" @text="Documentation" @href="#" />
  </Hds::Layout::Flex>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Group of cards

> Using the automatic layout offered by flexbox, it's extremely easy to create a group of identically sized, evenly spaced cards:

Author: ```suggestion
Using the automatic layout offered by flexbox, you can create a group of identically sized, evenly spaced cards:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="stretch" @gap="48" as |LF|>
  <LF.Item @basis={{0}} @grow={{true}}>
    <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is some generic content inside a card</Hds::Text::Body>
    </Hds::Card::Container>
  </LF.Item>
  <LF.Item @basis={{0}} @grow={{true}}>
    <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is some other generic content inside a card</Hds::Text::Body>
    </Hds::Card::Container>
  </LF.Item>
  <LF.Item @basis={{0}} @grow={{true}}>
    <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
      <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is also some generic content inside a card, but the text is longer and makes the card grow vertically</Hds::Text::Body>
    </Hds::Card::Container>
  </LF.Item>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

!!! Warning

> A responsive implementation of this UI pattern is a bit more complex, and requires to use `min-max/max-width` values for the cards, and allow wrapping of the flex item elements. It may also require changing direction of the flex container at a certain breakpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A responsive implementation of this UI pattern is a bit more complex and requires usage of `min-max/max-width` values for the cards and allowing wrapping of the flex item elements. It may also require changing the direction of the flex container at a certain breakpoint.
```

!!!

Similarly, it's easy to implement a vertical stack of cards:

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @direction="column" @gap="16" as |LF|>
  <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is some generic content inside a card</Hds::Text::Body>
  </Hds::Card::Container>
  <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is some other generic content inside a card</Hds::Text::Body>
  </Hds::Card::Container>
  <Hds::Card::Container @level="mid" @hasBorder={{true}} class="doc-flex-cards-item">
    <Hds::Text::Body @tag="p" @size="200">This is also some generic content inside a card, but the text is longer and makes the card grow vertically</Hds::Text::Body>
  </Hds::Card::Container>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Empty state

> Using the horizontal/vertical alignment offered by flexbox it's easy to implement a standard empty state in a page (as consumer you will just have to take care of the height of the container in relation to the available vertical space in the page):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the horizontal/vertical alignment offered by flexbox, it is also possible to implement a standard empty state in a page. As consumer you will just have to take care of the height of the container in relation to the available vertical space in the page.
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex
  @justify="center"
  @align="center"
  class="doc-flex-fixed-height-container doc-flex-outlined-container"
as |LF|>
  <Hds::ApplicationState as |A|>
    <A.Header @title="Empty state title text" @icon="alert-circle" />
    <A.Body @text="The item you were looking for was not found." />
  </Hds::ApplicationState>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

### Right aligned actions

> Using the `margin-left: auto` trick described above, one can achieve the following layout, where one of the flex items is flushed to the right:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the `margin-left: auto` trick described above, one can achieve the following layout, where one of the flex items is flushed to the right.
```

> Using the `margin-left: auto` trick described above, one can achieve the following layout, where one of the flex items is flushed on the right:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `margin-left: auto` trick described above, one can achieve the following layout, where one of the flex items is flushed to the right:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::Layout::Flex @align="start" @gap="16" class="doc-flex-outlined-container">
  <Hds::IconTile @logo="boundary" />
  <Hds::Text::Display @size="500" @tag="h5">Lorem ipsum dolor</Hds::Text::Display>
  <Hds::Dropdown class="doc-flex-margin-left-auto" as |D|>
    <D.ToggleButton @text="Main actions" />
    <D.Interactive @route="components">Action One</D.Interactive>
    <D.Interactive @route="components">Action Two</D.Interactive>
    <D.Interactive @route="components">Action Three</D.Interactive>
  </Hds::Dropdown>
</Hds::Layout::Flex>
```

> If needed, multiple items can be flushed to the right:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If needed, multiple items can be flushed to the right.
```

Reviewer 3: This example seems repetitive with the right flushed example in "recipes"... might be worth it to consolidate them and only show the "real world example".

Reviewer 2: On the punctuation suggestion, In this doc, I saw all of the text that is followed by a code example uses a `:` instead of a `.`.  Do we usually use periods or colons in this situation?

Reviewer: @dchyun Good call out. Checking a few existing examples, it looks like we normally end these introductory sentences for code samples with a period "." vs. a colon ":"

Author: So which one? I'm confused (eg. see here: https://helios.hashicorp.design/components/button?tab=code)

Reviewer 2: Seems like _mostly_ we use periods. Such as in the [badge](https://helios.hashicorp.design/components/badge?tab=code). Colons generally are used in the guidelines before a list. 

Maybe the guidance can be if what you write before the code block is a complete sentence, use a period. If it is not, use a colon. 

> To specify in which [direction](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/flex-direction) the flex items are laid out, use the `@direction` argument.

> Use the `@direction` argument to specify which direction the flex items are laid out in. For example:

From button guidelines
<img width="857" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-21 at 9 25 21 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/504c43b3-6461-4b72-994e-98db8957727a" />

Author: I've removed as many `:` as I could.

Reviewer: In either case it's not too big a deal to mix & match the two.

> If needed, multiple items can be flushed on the right:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If needed, multiple items can be flushed to the right:
```
